hello my dear friends welcome to my
channel it's a hot day in San Francisco
so I'll be drinking my lemonade and I'm
gonna be telling you about settling in
the United States I'm gonna tell my
story and I hope it's gonna help you in
the nearest future when you come here to
study or do whatever you want because
there are some things that I didn't know
before I arrived here so if you're
interested continue watching
okay the first thing that I'm gonna talk
about is actually one of the most
important ones is your accommodation
where he's staying if you've been
accepted to university they should have
send you an email with like
accommodations options that you have
sometimes they would have student
residences on campus and if it's a rural
canvas if it's not in the city that will
be probably the best option but one
thing that I always recommend is
actually comparing prices because what
I've noticed is that student residents
are always a little more expensive and
sometimes twice as expensive as renting
a room on your own but they're a lot
more convenient cuz they're on campus
you with other students sometimes they
have a contain on the first floor they
have a gym they have a swimming pool so
you have like everything walking
distance and you don't need to travel
travel car or whatever but sometimes if
you're in a tough budget difference in
price can make a lot of difference to
your budget just to give you some
comparisons sometimes a room on student
campus cost like a thousand dollars a
month and if you just rent a bedroom in
an apartment which is like 20 minutes
away from campus you can get it for like
$250 or $500 but there are different
things to consider when deciding where
to live purses of course your budget
second is your safety because don't try
to rent a room on Craigslist and
Craigslist is this platform where you
can find anything in the u.s. starting
from like rooms to rent to cars to
makeup like whatever and everything is
there but there's also a lot of scam we
had this story we're back at 500
startups when we just arrived everyone
was looking for an apartment because our
batch was like 50% international and
there were people from who arrived from
London and they were looking for an
apartment and they found this ad on
Craigslist which had like the most
really good price it was like $1,600 per
month for a one-bedroom apartment in
Silicon Valley and mon mew which is like
a ridiculously low price because
normally you feel like $2,000 at 2500
they're like oh we want to get this
apartment what do we need to do can we
come and see it and the guy was like oh
no I
to pay the deposit first because there
are so many people who actually want to
get it and you need a van void to me and
venmo is an app that everybody uses in
the u.s. to send each other money which
is basically no security you send it and
then you know the person disappears and
it's very hard to claim your money back
and they were like that sounds
suspicious and they started checking
that person on Facebook and they
realized the profile was completely new
so that was a hundred percent scam so
never run something before you see it
also there are so many stories when
people come to see their apartment and
it looks completely different than
what's in the photos because you know
you can delete a photo shop you can do a
lot of like extra lighting you can do a
lot of like different stuff on Photoshop
to make an apartment look a lot better
sometimes you come to an apartment and
this is another problem of with the
American apartments a lot of them the
older ones have carpets and sometimes
carpets smell like crazy and you just
feel the smell especially like in in the
cities that are close to ocean like San
Francisco Miami this is a huge problem
so be careful my best advice is to run
something like a hotel or maybe a
short-term student residence for the
first two or three weeks and then once
you're there you do all of the
orientation stuff you see you meet other
people you ask around and then you rent
an apartment it's been like this in our
case so we rented a hotel before it was
really expensive to rent a hotel for
like two or three weeks but what we did
we realized where our office was and we
just walked around we just went into
every single building that had for a
lease sign and you would always see them
like in the US if somebody's renting
something like a building they would
have a sign and we just walked into
every single building ask them if they
had any apartments if they had we asked
them whether they would rent them to us
because problem number two you don't
have credit history in the US and a lot
of the apartment complexes want to check
your credit history before renting
something out to you and especially if
you're renting from like a private
person through an agent they would do
like rigorous background check up why
because in some states there are laws
that prevent you from being kicked out
of your apartment if you stop paying
if you're stopping in the state of
California they might want to sue you
they can use collectors but they cannot
call the police and ask you to drag you
out of the apartment because you're not
paying because this is your primary
residence blah blah so there is some
loss and this is why a lot of people are
really really careful about renting
apartments to other people and they do
this background checks but some barman
complex especially that are close to
universities especially where the prices
are a little higher they would be ok
with maybe like a bank statement from
your own country or maybe like a new
bank statement from your a new bank
account American I'm gonna talk about
that as well they're gonna be fine with
it so this is just another difficulty to
consider this is something that you
would have to deal with and again it's
all about attitude when I came to the US
I knew there are gonna be a lot of
difficulties because I would need to get
like a work visa I need to get a green
card I would need to get all of my
document started out because I didn't
have anything but my attitude to that
was like I want to go through this
process I want to try and do things I'm
excited like I like that I'm doing stuff
in English so it's all about attitude
and yes you're gonna deal with a lot of
papers so be ready some websites to
consider when looking for an apartment
well Craigslist yes you can consider it
but always check everything in person
and like double check to the background
check on the guy who's placing an ad
because he can be a scammer my favorite
app is hot Pat's it gives you like a map
of what's around and you can click on
things and see how much they are and
what it actually is and I think a lot of
those are verified so they're not that
many scammers and hotbeds solocom is a
huge website where you can find all of
the rentals so these are three primary
resources I would use and as I mentioned
just walking down the street and looking
for the lease signs is a good
alternative and of course ask your
university what are the accommodation
options they're working with bank
accounts now you need to start building
your credit history and
none of the banks would give you a
credit card just like a week after you
arrived you can start a debit card and
what I did when I first came in
I made a debit card in the Bank of
America then I got my assistant a Social
Security number and I was able to apply
for a secured credit card sometimes
you're even able to get it without an
SSN what is a secured credit card you
pay $300 to a bank and you get $300
credit limit and then they just they
would just raise your credit limit but
the thing is you start building your
credit history and credit history is
linked to your SSN so there is actually
no point in creating a credit card
without your assistant once you get it
starting your credit history because who
knows like if you're gonna spend four
years in America it's gonna matter a lot
if you're gonna work later and notice
how to get a house even for some getting
some plans for your mobile phone you
would sometimes need an SSN and a credit
history so this is extremely important
in the u.s. my credit history is still
like in progress but I was able to get
my car financed and basically what you
would end up doing in the u.s. is that
taking loans for everything just because
having loans and paying them on time
improves your credit history if you're
getting a car even if you have money
later on I would recommend to finance it
meaning that it would take a little from
a bank and finance your car the next
thing actually getting a car and if you
are coming to study in a big city like
New York or San Francisco you should
probably be fine without a car if you're
going to a huge city like la la is
impossible without a car like at first
you be like oh I will be fine with a
bike and I used to bike a lot in mom you
I used to bike the first four weeks and
then I realized I cannot actually go
grocery shopping because I don't want to
go grocery shopping everyday I wanted to
do once a week but I cannot carry
everything to send my back and bike you
would want to do some weekend getaways
with your friends you would want to
travel somewhere and
I know it's a price the option to get a
car but it's have been price here too
over all the time because over would
cost like 10 20 dollars so there is no
good public transport which is to for LA
and true for a lot of big cities in the
US and fortunately and smaller cities as
well it's not like you were oil like I'm
from the UK like London you can get
anywhere with public transport in the US
the situation is different and I find
that a lot of students end up getting
car for themselves just because it gives
more freedom we got our first car from
Craigslist it was a retired police
interceptor is something you might want
to consider because they're really cheap
and they're really good cars cuz they
are made for police police doesn't
normally use them for too long ours was
like seven-year old car that was it was
2008 we got it in 2015 so it's like
seven-year old car and we paid $2,700
for it and it was an amazing condition
it had air conditioning it had very nice
soft seats I drove it and it was
comfortable and nice and for 2,700 I
think it's value for money but if you
are not a fan of like weird looking cars
because it actually looks like a police
car black and white you can always look
for like other cheaper options they
wouldn't be as cheap may didn't find a
car for like $4,000 4500
key Bay is a good resource but if you're
getting something off Craigslist or Ebay
I would have like a friend who is the
next ridden cars so you can check stuff
for you because again there are some
scammers we once we were ones buying a
car so we're looking for a second car
and we found an ad on Craigslist in
Sacramento we went there and they're
like oh the car is in perfect condition
yeah we loved it it was like a Mercedes
e-class poor like it was $4,000 and like
why is selling is so cheap like oh we
don't need it anymore we just want to
sell it faster and then they start the
engine and smoke just starts coming from
the front of the car and we're like oh
and those two guys are talking to each
other and they're like oh my god I hoped
that it wouldn't do it once again so
basically they already had this problem
where the smoke just comes out of the
car and they just wanted to sell it to
us and they were hoping that it wouldn't
be that careful
stinking whatever and so they were
hoping that we wouldn't notice that or I
don't know what their hopes were but
they were like so confused and of course
we didn't get that car but I having a
friend who would help you choose a car
is a it's a good thing to do
the next expensive thing about your us
education is your health insurance and
it really depends on where you study
I've seen plans starting from like $40 a
month up to $550 a month but if they
come from your university they should be
on a cheaper side I'm paying for my
insurance myself my company pays for it
but because I own the company it's me
paying
so my insurance cost $600 a month which
is a huge amount of money but also US
health care is crazy so something you
could do like a life hack for example in
my country travelers insurance is like
$100 a month and it covers accidents so
I would just get that insurance like
first year if you really want to save
money if like your university only
offers like $500 a month plans so the
travel insurance would help you cover
accidents but if you would need just to
visit a doctor for some non origin stuff
it wouldn't cover that so if I were you
I would do my research I would reach out
a university I would do the research in
your own country regarding the travel
insurance but yeah it costs a lot and
try to stay healthy in the u.s. if you
don't have insurance because it costs
like thousands of dollars if something
happens and I know it's crazy and I know
it's unfair but this is something that
this country still has to fix and last
but not least just some advice on where
to shop if you are a fan of getting a
lot of stuff like in bulks Costco is a
very effective place especially if you
live with roommates if there are like
five of you and you need like water rice
or whatever you can just go to Costco
everything is huge and it's a lot
cheaper than just going to a local
grocery store if you don't like wine in
bulks because that you end up getting a
lot of stuff in Costco and you need
membership which is like $60 a year you
can go to Trader Joe's Trader Joe's
one of the shops that provides quality
food but for lower prices one of my
favorite used to be one of my favorite
shops I no longer have it in the place
where I live we have like an extremely
expensive shop near my house but Trader
Joe's saved my life whom we just moved
here if you want to buy cheaper clothes
I would recommend going to Marshalls
Ross or TJ Maxx there are a lot of like
last year's collections and sometimes
you can give really good deals
especially like if you're getting good
brands like Nikes you can get them with
ninety percent off these shops are also
good for like home decoration buying
plates and stuff there's always IKEA but
with IKEA be careful with the smelly
furniture I just got a dresser that I'm
returning because it smells so badly
again furniture what happens in the u.s.
sometimes you just walk and you see
furniture standing on the street for
free be aware of the bugs bed bugs
because it's another problem here in the
u.s. San Francisco there are so many
places with bed bugs and it wouldn't
advise just taking mattresses from the
street or like sofas cuz then you're
gonna infect your place and they're
really hard to get rid of but like
tables chairs especially if you
disinfect them after getting them from
the street may be a good option garage
sales look for them like you can google
garage sales plus the place where you're
living and you just walk into a house
and basically when people move they sell
everything there's a price tag on
everything certainly put the table and
then a bag and then a mic you can get
anything and it's really cheap I got all
of my kitchen utensils like small tables
chairs on those garage sales we just
went around and I kept buying things and
it saved me a lot of money the only
thing that I have recommend getting new
pillows mattresses and blankets because
bedbugs again is a problem
my favorite resource to buy stuff right
now is amazon.com everything is
delivered within a day or two days
straight into your place especially if
you don't have time to go shopping and I
don't have time I just order everything
everything comes in there is a
membership fee but then you get free
delivery you get access to like millions
of products online that was it for me
you're already in the US and you have a
life hack for newcomers please share it
down in comments below like maybe your
favorite shop your favorite place to get
furniture or whatever I'm getting new
furniture so any advice highly
appreciated thank you so much for
watching this video I hope it was useful
for you I hope you're coming to the yeah
soon and here they get subscribed
subscribe to my channel my Instagram is
lingua marina I share daily stories and
posts from Silicon Valley San Francisco
and if you enjoyed this content like
likes likes at click the like button and
I'll see you soon bye